This project delivers a detailed study on image classification with the implementation of deep learning techniques (particularly on the CIFAR-100 dataset) where it underlines the relevance of significant advancement of various techniques in the image classification field. The study aims to build a deep neural network architecture that classifies images excellently. The methodology, model architecture, and training and evaluation standards were detailed in this study. The image classification problem was addressed with the implementation of two methods, the CNN model created from scratch and transfer learning. The different processes were implemented in the CNN architecture to extract the significant characteristics from the images putting overfitting in mind. The study accomplished the application of transfer learning as two pre-trained models, the VGG16 and ResNet50 were employed to learn the image patterns where their final dense layers were replaced, freezing the remaining pre-trained layers. From the results, transfer learning gave a better prediction accuracy when compared to the CNN model and the accuracy of the transfer learning techniques was not positively influenced by data augmentation as would have been expected. The limitation of computational power was a major factor in restricting the exploration of other modern pretrained architectures. In general, the study points out the importance of transfer learning for image classification and provides insights to improve the accuracy of this problem.
